---
layout: page
permalink: /6/
---
[Go Back](/blog/)
<h2 style="margin: 0;"> A Brief on Agriculture Students and Agritech. </h2><dr>
<h6 style="color: #7D7D7D;" >March 2023<h6>
Whenever agriculture students/graduates tell me there are very few opportunities and that they made a mistake by choosing this degree, I really want to dismiss their claim. But then, I remember that I used to think the same way until I found my forte, Agri-tech.<br><br>

During our college days, we were made to believe that our options after graduation are marketing jobs in agri input companies, PG studies, AO, UPSC, and other government exams. Since I was not interested in any of these, I explored and found Agri-tech. I assume not everyone is aware and patient enough to do it.<br><br>

Now, three years after my graduation, when I look around, some of my friends completed PG, and others got jobs in the banking and government sectors. A few are preparing for government and bank jobs. Long story short, 99% of them didn't explore the Agri-tech industry. If only any of them explored this side of agriculture, I'm sure I would be hearing fewer people say, "There are no opportunities for agriculture graduates."<br><br>

It doesn't mean that Agri-tech is the answer to every graduate's problem, but those who are genuinely interested and pursuing it know how rewarding working in Agri-tech can be, both personally and professionally.<br><br>

Then why is there no mass entry of agriculture students into Agri-tech? The two main reasons I assume are a lack of participation from educational institutes in new age business innovations and not many role models succeeding from an Agri-educated background in the Agri-tech industry. Since the relevant people are not aware of its existence, Agri-tech startups hire everyone else for their roles.<br><br>