---
layout: page
permalink: /7/
---
[Go Back](/blog/)
<h2 style="margin: 0;"> India's live entertainment market revolution</h2><dr>
<h6 style="color: #7D7D7D;" >September 2024</h6>
Today, Coldplay concert tickets sold out in record time, with over 1,000,000 people waiting in Book My Show's digital queue for the lottery. For context, that’s ₹700 crore worth of tickets!<br><br>

Similarly, we saw the same demand when Dua Lipa’s concert sold out within minutes, and Diljit’s concert tickets were gone in just 30 SECONDS on Zomato.<br><br>

Here’s my take on this booming live entertainment market:<br><br>

This massive demand for live events clearly reflects an increase in disposable income across the nation.<br><br>

In a country like India, with its huge youth population, 30,000–40,000 seating capacity venues simply aren't enough.<br><br>

Zomato has perfectly timed its entry into this rapidly growing business, which has the potential to generate billions. Today, Book My Show holds a 55% market share in live entertainment, with PayTM Insider covering the other 45%. With its acquisition of PayTM Insider, Zomato has entered duopoly in a highly promising space. I predict that in 2-3 years, Zomato will surpass Book My Show and become the top player in live entertainment.<br><br>

Food and entertainment go hand in hand, and Zomato understands this better than anyone. They have tested this FOOD <> Entertainment phenomenon for a few years now in the form of Zomaland, Zomato's annual food and entertainment festival. What started as a pure food festival has seamlessly evolved to include live entertainment. With District, they are going to go all in this biz.<br><br>

Zomato is truly a founder-mode company, and Deepinder Goyal is leading the charge.<br><br>

However, platforms must keep a close eye on the resale of tickets, which are often sold at inflated prices. They should introduce strict regulations and innovative features to tackle black-market reselling.<br><br>

(This is part of my "writing to understand" practice, and since I keep coming back to this platform even when I shouldn't, why not use it for this?)<br><br>

Signing off till next one,<br><br>

Dinesh, decided to work from home on a busy Monday.

